Overview of customer accounts
 
For each account, you can view the complete history of all subscriptions and amendments, transactions (including invoices, payments, refunds, credits, adjustments), and key metrics (for example, monthly recurring revenue) for that customer. Key actions can be easily launched from the Customer Accounts page, including the ability to cancel or delete a customer account, create new subscriptions, process payments and refunds, adjust invoice charges, and create invoice item adjustments. Many of these actions can be found by clicking on the more button on the customer account page.

Customer Hierarchy 
The Customer Hierarchy feature allows you to select a parent record in the customer account. You can use this with both existing customers (view the account and edit it to add a parent) and when creating a new customer account.

To enable this feature, set the Enable Customer Hierarchy? billing rule to Yes.

A parent-child relationship is not required for most accounts, and this should be configured only when needed.

Typically, Zuora users use customer hierarchy for one of these two cases: 

To arrange billing accounts in a hierarchy: This is for organizational purposes. 
To roll up usage: You can use customer hierarchy to roll up usage from child to parent accounts. 
In the Zuora UI, you can navigate customer hierarchy by clicking the Navigate Hierarchy link next to the account name in the Customer Accounts page.

In the SOAP API, you can navigate parent account with the ParentId field on the Account object.

Reseller Account
The Reseller Account feature is now generally available to all customers. If you want to access this feature, submit a request at Zuora Global Support.

With this feature, you can flag an account as a partner account by specifying the partnerAccount field on the Account object. This feature is designed specifically for businesses that have distributors or resellers, or operate in B2B model with a large number of subscriptions.

If an account is flagged as a partner account, the calculation of account metrics is performed asynchronously during operations such as subscription creation, order changes, invoice generation, and payments. This means that the calculation of metrics is delayed for partner accounts.

For more information, see Reseller Account.

Importing Accounts
If you already have a list of your customers from another database (for example, Salesforce.com, Excel, QuickBooks, or another source), you can quickly enter data in our system by importing your customer accounts.

See Importing Customer Accounts for detailed instructions.

Grouping Accounts for Batch Processing
You can use Batches to easily group your customer accounts in order to allow for separate processing. A maximum of 50 different batches can be created for different types of customer accounts. For example, your customer accounts can be organized as Batch 1 for US-based customers, Batch 2 for EMEA, and Batch 3 for Asia. This gives you the flexibility to select who you want to bill for by running bill runs based on batches. You can also choose to bill batches by payment method such as electronic and external.

Key metrics for customer accounts
This article provides an overview for each customer account that includes key metrics for the account. With one glance at key metrics, you can see the customer’s Account Balance, Contracted Monthly Recurring Revenue (MRR), Today’s MRR, and Last Invoiced date. If you have enabled the Orders feature, Order metrics are available for each order action. See Key Metrics for Orders for more information.

Key Metrics Fields
Field	Description
Account Balance	
The outstanding balance for the customer, and is the sum of all outstanding invoices and debit memos. The debit memos are only available if you have the Invoice Settlement feature enabled.

Total Invoice Balance	The sum of the balances of each individual invoice. 
Credit Balance	The customer's current credit balance. This field is deprecated if you have the Invoice Settlement feature enabled.
Total Debit Memo Balance	The total outstanding balance of debit memos for the customer. 
Unapplied Credit Memo Amount	The amount of a credit memo that has been created, but not used to settle or offset an invoice balance or a debit memo balance.
Unapplied Payment Amount	The amount of a payment that you have received but has not yet applied to any invoices or debit memos. 
Contracted MRR (CMRR)	There are account-level CMRR and subscription-level CMRR. See Contracted MRR for more information.
Today's MRR	The current monthly recurring revenue as of today’s date. Today’s MRR does not account for future upgrades, downgrades, upsells, or cancellations.
Total MRR	The sum of CMRRs of all the subscriptions owned by an account.
Last Invoiced	The date the customer was last invoiced.
See Monthly Recurring Revenue for more information about MRR and how to calculate it. Also see Total Contract Value, a related key metric. 

Balance Examples
For example: You pay $50 into an account that has no invoice. The credit balance of account is $50, the total invoice balance is $0, and the account balance is -$50 (negative $50).

You then create two invoices with invoice amounts of $100 and $200. The total invoice balance is now $300, the credit balance is still $50, and the account balance is $250 ($300 invoice balance, minus the $50 credit balance).

Any payment can be applied to an invoice to reduce the balance of the invoice. This reduces the total invoice balance and the account balance. If you refund from a credit balance to a customer, this reduces the credit balance and increases the account balance, even though the total invoice balance does not change.

Create customer accounts

How to Create Customer Accounts
The process of creating a new customer account involves a few easy steps:

Enter the Basic Information and Contacts. Each account must have at least one contact before it can be saved. You can add a maximum of 100 contacts to an account.
Enter the Payment Method. You can add a maximum of 100 payment methods to an account.
Enter the Billing and Payment Info.
Optional. Complete the Additional Fields with additional account information.
Create a Customer Account
When you create an account, provide as much detail as possible so that you can bill correctly. Strive for accurate and consistent spelling of a corporate name if it is a company. Your billing customer database is only as good as the data being entered into the system.

Navigate to Customers > Customer Accounts in the left-hand navigation section and click add new account.
Enter the Basic Information and Contacts for the account. You can add a maximum of 100 contacts to an account.
If you select the Same as Bill To Contact check box during account creation, both the Bill To and Sold To contacts are updated upon updating either one because they are pointing to the same contact record. In this case, if you want to update only one of them, you have to first create another contact and update the Bill To or Sold To contact of the customer account to be the newly created one.

Optional. Select a Parent account if you want to create a hierarchy of customer accounts and use Zuora's enterprise billing features.
Specify the Account Name and Bill To Contact First and Last Name. A valid email address is required if you want to send an invoice by email. The contact record contains information that you will need to keep and use for billing. A contact is linked to a customer account.
If you are using another system that uses a name match for integration (for example, QuickBooks for accounting), the Name for your account must match the name for the account in your other system. Accounting systems have the following character limits for account names:
QuickBooks® Desktop: 41 characters or fewer
QuickBooks® Online: 100 characters or fewer
Intacct: 100 characters or fewer
Enter the Payment Method. You can add a maximum of 100 payment methods to an account.
Enter the Billing and Payment Information.
Click Additional Fields to include more information about your customer account, such as:
Account Number
CRM Account ID
Sales Rep
CSR
PO Number
Billing Batch
Invoice Template
Sequence Set
Allow Invoice Editing
Invoice Delivery Preferences
Additional Email Addresses
Credit Memo Template (This feature is in Limited Availability.)
Debit Memo Template (This feature is in Limited Availability.)
CRM Account ID, Sales Rep, CSR, and Notes are some of the many the fields that can be used to map information between your web site, SFA (Salesforce Automation), or CRM (customer relationship management) software and Zuora Billing. If you do not enter an account number, Zuora Billing assigns an account number that is unique to the account.

You can organize your customer accounts in batches, such as Batch 1 for US-based customers, Batch 2 for EMEA, and Batch 3 for Asia. When you set up Billing Operations, this gives you the flexibility of running bill runs based on batches. You can also choose from a list of default payment methods, including both electronic and external payment methods.

Click save. The customer account is saved with an active status. You can create subscriptions for this account and start charging them for your products or services.
Use SOAP or REST APIs to Create Customer Accounts
See SOAP API Account object.

See REST API Create Account method.

Using a VAT ID
If you are using Avalara, you can specify a European Union Value Added Tax identification number for a customer account. To add an EU VAT ID to a customer account, enter an identification number in the VAT ID field when you create the customer account.

This feature is in Limited Availability. If you want to have access to the feature, submit a request at Zuora Global Support. 

EDIT CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS

View customer accounts
Customer Accounts provides a list of all customers. You can see a high-level summary of each account. This is the expanded view of the list of all your customers. You can switch between expanded and list views. See Expanded and list views of customer accounts.

To view information for an individual account, in the section for that account, click View (or click the account name). 

Search for customer accounts

earching for Customer Accounts
To search for a customer account, navigate to Customers > Customer Accounts and enter your search string, e.g., Soho Plc, into the search box on the right.

There are two search modes: regular search (the default) and filtered search.

Regular Search
Regular search looks for your search string in all the customer account fields at once. If your search string is found anywhere in a customer account record, that customer is returned in the results. This type of search can return many results, but can take longer to complete than a filtered search. Zuora recommends that you start with a regular search, but if results are slow, try using a filtered search.

To perform a regular search, ensure All is displayed next to the Field label. To change the Field value, click it to show the available options. The Search Type options are unavailable when All is selected.

Filtered Search
Filtered search looks for your search string in only one specified customer account field, and can, therefore, return results more quickly than a regular search.

To select the specific customer account field that you wish to find your search string in, e.g., Account Name, click the field value next to the Field label, and select one of the following:

Account Name: The customer account name, for example, Soho Plc.
Account Number: The customer account number, for example, A00001789.
Name (FirstName LastName): The full name of the customer account, for example, Soho Plc.
CRM ID: The Account ID of this customer in your CRM system, for example, 0017000000oz2K0.
Last 4 Digits CC: The last four digits of the customer's credit card, for example, 3403.
Work Email: The customer's work email address, for example, sally.tompkins@soho.com.
Work Phone: The customer's work phone number, for example, 555-345-48485.
Custom Field(s): The values contained in the custom fields that were created on the Account object. This option is only visible if you have 'Custom Field' enabled in your tenant settings.
Your selected field will be remembered between sessions as the default option for future searches.

Searching for Full Names
To search for a customer's full name e.g. John Smith you should select Name (FirstName LastName).

The first name is taken to be everything before the first whitespace, and everything after this is taken as the last name. A search is then performed looking for customers whose first name and last names match the separated parts of your search string.

A search string of Robert Louis Stevenson would find all customers with the first name of Robert and the last name of Louis Stevenson.
A search string of Stevenson Robert Louis would find all customers with the first name of Stevenson and the last name of Robert Louis.
If a customer's first name contains a white space you must use quote marks to define which words comprise the first name.

A search string of "Robert Louis" Stevenson would find a customer whose first name was Robert Louis and last name was Stevenson.
A search string of Robert Louis Stevenson would not find a customer whose first name was Robert Louis and last name was Stevenson.
If only a single word is entered then this will be searched for in both First Name and Last Name fields.

A search string of Robert would find all customers with the first name of Robert, or the last name of Robert, or both.
Search Type
Specifying a search type allows you to narrow the range of results your searches generate. To select the search type that you want to use, for example, Starts With, click the highlighted field next to the Type label. 

The Starts With and Exact Match types return fewer, more accurate results in the fastest possible time. We recommend that you use one of these options in your initial search, as results are returned quickly.

The Contains type will return a result if it finds your search string at the beginning, middle or end of an account field. It is the least restrictive search type, and therefore returns more results and runs more slowly than the other two options. We recommend you only use this option if you can't find the customer account using the other two options, and need to widen your search.

Your selected search type will be remembered between sessions as the default option for future searches.

Starts With
This search operation checks for a match at the beginning of a word. A word is defined by a sequence of alphanumeric or underscore characters, and the end of a word is indicated by white-space or a non-alphanumeric, non-underscore character. The search is not case-sensitive.

For example, to search for a customer account named “Lilypad Gardens,” the following terms will result in a match:

Lilypad Gardens
Lilypad
Lilypad G
Lily
Gardens
Searching for the end of a word, such as "dens" in the customer name Lilypad Gardens, will return no results.

Exact Match
This search operation checks for the exact word(s) you specify in the search string. The search is not case sensitive.

For example, to search for a customer account named “Soho” the following terms will result in a match:

Soho
soho
sOhO
Searching for the beginning of the customer name Soho, such as 'So', or the end of a word such as 'ho', will return no results. Similarly, if searches contain additional words e.g. 'Soho Inc' then no results will be returned.


Cancel a customer account
Delete a Customer Account
Notes and limitations
If a customer cancels their subscription and is no longer billed for services, the customer account can be canceled. A customer account can be set to cancelled status only after all subscriptions have been canceled. A customer account that has been canceled can be re-activated if needed.

Cancel a customer account
Before you can cancel a customer account, you must cancel all subscriptions associated with that account (you must cancel active and draft subscriptions). When a customer account is canceled, Zuora will not perform any transactions on that account: 

Zuora will not generate invoices for canceled accounts
You cannot apply payments for canceled accounts
To cancel a customer account, complete the following steps:

Navigate to Customers > Customer Accounts in the left-hand navigation.
Locate the customer account that you want to cancel.
Click the name of the customer account to open the account detail page.
Click the three vertical dots icon to show more applicable actions, then click Cancel Customer Account.
Click OK to confirm the action.
If you later want to reactivate the account, click Reactivate Customer Account on the account detail page. 

Delete a Customer Account
Navigate to Customers > Customer Accounts in the left-hand navigation to view the existing accounts.
Locate the target account and click the Delete icon on the right side of the row.
Click Delete to confirm the action.
Deleting an account deletes all account information, including subscriptions, invoices, payments, and adjustments.

Notes and limitations
For account deletion, the system will start a backend job to remove all transactions under the accounts and change the status of the accounts to Canceled. This backend job is asynchronous and will take some time, depending on the job size.    
An account cannot be deleted when both of the following conditions are met:
The account is either the invoice owner of a subscription or the subscription owner.
The subscription's invoice owner and subscription owner are two different accounts.
An exception to this limitation above is if the Enable force deletion for Account? setting is set to Yes, you can force delete an account that is the subscription owner of a subscription while the invoice owner is a different account. Force deleting this account deletes all its subscriptions, but the relevant invoices will not be impacted.

Import customer accounts
Save as PDF
 
Importing Customer Accounts
Required Column Headers
Customer Accounts
Customer Contacts
Payment Method
Using the Zuora UI Template for the Account and Contact Combiner
If you already have a list of your customers from another database (for example, Salesforce.com, Excel, QuickBooks, or another source), you can quickly enter data in Zuora system by importing all your customer accounts as a CSV file.

Importing Customer Accounts
To import your customer accounts, perform the following steps:

Navigate to Customers > Customer Accounts.
On the right side of the All Customer Accounts page, select Customer Accounts from the Import list under the Action section.
Click Choose File to select the CSV file that you want to import.
Click submit to import data from the selected file.
The imported customer accounts will show up on the All Customer Accounts page.

If you are not sure about the column headers in the CSV file, click Download a Template to get the templates for customer accounts, contacts, and payment methods. These templates contain all available column headers. For the required columns, refer to Required Column Headers. 
Characters in languages other than English might be garbled. If it happens, save the CSV file in UTF-8 without BOM encoding and import the file again.
You can also use the same way to import contacts and payment methods. Remember that the customer account ID is required for each contact and each payment method. To obtain the appropriate customer account IDs for contacts and payment methods, export the customer accounts that you previously imported by clicking Export Customer Accounts. In the exported CSV file, do a lookup to combine the contacts and payment methods with the customer account IDs.
Required Column Headers
When you import a file, the first row (cell A horizontal) must have a specific set of headers.

The column headers for customer accounts, contacts, and payment methods are listed below. 


Run report of actively billed customer accounts

Note that the Account object in Zuora has its own ‘Status’ field, of which one possible status is ‘Active’. Zuora sets the status of an Account to Active once created regardless if there is a subscription or not. Listing Accounts by account status may include accounts that are yet to bill or have finished billing at some time in the past. Therefore, to view "active customers", Zuora recommends listing the customer accounts that have subscriptions actively billed.

To get a list of customers that are being actively billed, run the Zuora standard "MRR by Account" report:

Navigate to Reporting > Reporting in Zuora.
Navigate to Standard Reports > Booking > Drivers.
Navigate to MRR by account, and click the down arrow next to Run Detail Report.
In the expanded drop-down menu, click Run Summary Report.
A list of all customers you are actively billing will be displayed grouped by Currency.